♪
Previously on
Star Trek: Discovery...
I'm not sure how to be
around you anymore.
Some things are hard
to move past, for both of us.
Yeah, maybe we haven't wanted
to say that out loud.
Are we saying it now?
I think we are.
So, I'll ask for you to do
one-on-ones with the crew.
No need. I've read their files.
I'd like you to connect
with them in person.
I think we can both agree that
connection is not exactly
where my skill set lies.
Connection isn't a skill,
it's a choice.
It's good to meet you, Jinaal.
I'm Captain Burnham
of the USS Discovery.
And now you're here
for the clue.
BURNHAM:
Yes. You have it?
No.
But I can take you to it.
BURNHAM:
These are the coordinates
for the next clue.
CULBER:
They are.
RAYNER:
You find the Progenitors' tech?
BURNHAM:
No, but we found a clue
to where it's hidden.
Quest continues.
BOOK:
If we run into L'ak and Moll,
it won't be pretty.
Got the latinum?
A bag?
What is this, amateur hour?
You're supposed to stack it
so it's easier to count.
-It's all we could do
last-minute.
-Yeah.
This'll cover the original cost,
but, uh, the price
of the item has gone up.
Consider it an expensive...
[coughing]
Expensive lesson
in how to do business.
See, we heard you might
try something like this,
so we came prepared.
We soaked the latinum
in Fop'yano poison.
The kind that you sold
to the Emerald Chain
to use on people like me.
Consider it
an expensive lesson in how
not to do business.
L'AK:
Moll.
What if that doesn't work?
It will.
And once we're ahead
of Discovery,
we can get the next clue
and the next.
We've got this.
I just feel like...
sometimes the walls
are closing in on us, you know?
[grunting, gasping]
We are gonna find
the Progenitors' tech.
And no more bounty on our heads.
No more looking over
our shoulders.
No more running.
We'll be free.
Free sounds good.
We should go.
Discoverywon't be at Trill
much longer.
GRAY [on comms]:
I'm really happy we can
stay friends, Adira.
ADIRA:
Me too. I'd miss you
too much otherwise.
So, I'll see you in a few monts
when I graduate to
the next level of training?
-Yeah, I wouldn't miss it.
-Great.
-Talk soon. Bye.
-Bye.
STAMETS [on comms]:
Adira, could you re-adjust
the deuterium manifold
on Deck Nine?
It shifted again after the jum.
Yes. Uh, on my way.
Well, what do you mean
there's nothing here?
Aren't we at the coordinates
Jinaal gave us on Trill?
Yes, Captain, but every scan
I've run-- polaron,
-multiphasic, ion trace have...
-Have all turned up nothing.
Not as much as a starbase within
two-and-a-half parsecs of here.
Well, let's keep looking.
Lieutenant Linus, send a team
of DOTs to do a more in-depth
scan of the area.
Aye, Captain.
And what about L'ak and Moll--
any sign of them yet?
Trill's not reporting anything.
Well, contact them again.
They should have
been there hours ago
when the captain
was down on the planet.
We need to be alert.
It's not like them
-to fall behind in a race.
-RHYS: Captain, if I may.
There is logic to L'ak and Moll
laying low for now.
If I were them,
I'd let Discovery
lead us to the next clue,
keep us guessing
in the meantime.
RAYNER:
If they were following us,
we'd have evidence of that
right here, right now,
but we don't.
So, let's stick
to the facts, Commander.
What we know, not what we guess.
Commander Rhys, take the conn.
Can I speak to you
in my ready room, please?
Unacceptable.
Not how we do things here.
-Trying to get them to focus.
-It's important to me
that the crew
be engaged and involved
and encouraged to speak freely.
Okay, then, speaking freely,
I think that's a mistake.
This is a Red Directive
mission, Captain.
There's no time
to be collaborative.
There's time to be
decisive and disciplined.
You don't think my crew
is disciplined?
I think they're too familiar,
too comfortable
with each other
and, frankly, with you.
That familiarity helped us save
the Federation, the galaxy,
and you.
I'm not doubting
their resumés or yours,
but none of you
had to learn the lessons
that we did during the Burn.
Things changed like that,
and if I listened
to every opinion
and cheered on anyone
who had an idea,
me and my crew would have been
dead a hundred times over.
You're in a state of flux
right now, Rayner,
-I get that.
-Oh, come on.
Spare me the
"I get you" bullshit.
I should have...
[sighs]
That was over the line.
Captain.
I'm sorry.
I understand
change is hard for anyone.
But Rayner... [sighs]
the Burn is over.
You're on my ship now.
I expect you
to do things my way.
And if my way is better?
[indistinct chatter]
I won't debate it
with you, Commander.
You clearly have yet
to see the value...
OWOSEKUN [on comms]:
Captain, I'm picking up some
odd energy fluctuations.
And something just broadcast
an unauthorized signal
from the ship.
On our way.
[alarm blaring]
What the...
What happened?
Are we under attack?
Bridge, report.
Transporter's not working.
Bridge?
Turbolift. Come on.
Saru?
Tilly?
What?
BURNHAM:
What the...
RAYNER:
We're in a wormhole.
No, it can't be.
What was that red thing?
Where are we?
Not where. When.
What?
That's the Red Angel.
That was me.
♪
[original Star Trektheme
plays]
This is the day we came
to the 32nd century.
We've gone back in time
to when you went forward
to the future?
That's a little confusing.
I guess it explains
why our transporter badges
aren't working.
But how the hell
did we get here?
I don't know.
-[groans softly]
-BURNHAM: We're not
supposed to be here.
They can't see us here.
They can't see us.
Come on, come on. Let's go.
[grunts]
Okay, think, think.
What could have happened?
Maybe we hit a time eddy.
Or maybe Jinaal's coordinates
weren't as empty
as we thought?
Computer may be able to...
Oh, damn it.
Can't help us.
SARU [on comms]:
This is Commander Saru.
All decks prepare for impact.
We should survive.
Detmer's about to crash-land
on a planet.
Oh, good, I won't waste any time
worrying about it then.
The flashing lights.
That happened last time.
Okay, we're back
in the ready room,
but it's changed again.
What?
[music playing]
-[music stops]
-I thought the inspection
wasn't until tomorrow.
Surprise.
Well, uh... [chuckles]
we're ready, of course.
I'll let the foreman
know you're here.
Uh, maybe go to Deck Seven
last, though.
Tell your foreman
that's where we're headed next.
Fail to prepare,
prepare to fail, son.
Nice one.
I hate that saying.
[chuckles]
We're in drydock,
when Discovery
was first being built.
Wow.
So, we haven't just
gone back in time.
-We're jumping through it.
-Right.
Saru called himself Commander.
Everyone on the bridge,
that worker just now--
they're all living
in the moment,
but we're not being
affected at all.
What if this isn't temporal?
What if this is some kind
of neural weapon?
Someone messing with our brains?
Yeah, but Zora didn't register
any vessels in the area
before this happened.
What was happening
when this first started?
Commander Owosekun called up,
reported a energy fluctuation.
And then we tried to beam
to the bridge.
That's why whatever this is
isn't impacting us.
It hit the ship at the exact
moment we were beaming.
Right.
And here we go again.
[alarm blaring]
We keep coming back
to the same position.
This is right where we were when
we first tried to transport.
What? There's a massive war
going on out there.
When is this?
Stardate 1051.8. What is that?
It's the battle with Control.
[chuckles]
Yeah, that was a tough one.
Whatever you said about beaming,
whatever hit the ship
right then, could explain
why we keep resetting
to these same spots.
Can't be a time eddy.
We would have
seen that on scans.
Doesn't feel like
a neural attack.
So, it has to be something
with the ship.
What are we missing?
Shit. It's a time bug.
What?
Krenim chronophage.
We call them time bugs. You can
find them in the black market
left over from the Temporal War.
They're designed
to paralyze an enemy ship
by randomly cycling them
through time.
-How long do they last?
-Weeks, months,
until the little suckers
run out of juice.
That's why we can't
beam anywhere.
The whole point
is to keep us stuck.
This has to be Moll and L'ak.
How the hell
did they get it on board?
They must have made it
to Trill somehow
and crossed paths
with one of you.
Owosekun did say there was
an unauthorized broadcast.
Right, that'd be
the location beacon.
So, they know
exactly where we are
and where the next clue is.
Rhys was right.
We cannot let them get what
the Progenitors left behind.
So, we have to find
and deactivate this bug.
My guess, it's in engineering,
but even if we do find it,
who knows how long we have.
Well, there must be a pattern
to the time cycle lengths.
If we use this to track them,
we figure it out.
Right now,
-we need to find Stamets.
-What can he do?
Well, he lives outside of time
because of his tardigrade DNA.
Uh...
Nevermind.
He should be within the cycle
lengths like everyone else,
but just as aware of it
as we are.
He may have already
figured it out.
Any idea where he'd be?
-MALE: Dr. Pollard, over here!
-NURSE: What about the injured
-on Deck 12?
-We'll get them stable,
-we get them out. You got it?
-[Stamets groaning]
On it.
Paul? What happened?
A bug, a scary bug.
Listen, please,
I need to get to engineering.
Oh, God!
-I forgot how bad this hurts.
-You've been impaled, Paul.
You should be in
an induced coma.
No, no, no, no, no.
No, you can't do that. Zora?
Who is Zora?
Oh, no, she doesn't exist yet.
-You're okay. I got you.
-No.
No, no.
I-I need to get out of here.
I need to find a way
out of this.
You're not going anywhere.
You need to rest.
No, Hugh, I need to help.
I-I might be
the only one who can.
-It's okay.
-No, no, no. Please.
RAYNER:
Cloak alert.
-What's happening?
-Not sure yet,
but I do know
that last cycle lasted
twice as long
as the one before it.
Hope this one's even longer.
Where's Stamets today?
Considering the stardate,
I'm guessing engineering.
Storage Deck 13,
direct via
service shaft Upsilon.
Why are we taking a long-cut?
13 can access engineering
and it's usually empty.
-Temporal Prime Directive.
-Right. Any change in our past
-could alter our entire future.
-Exactly.
Then we can't let
the ship's computer
know that we're here either.
This is after
Discovery'sretrofit,
so it'd be able to recognize
our biometric readings.
You got an override code
for that?
Good thinking.
Thanks.
[alarm blaring]
We just went to black alert.
What was the stardate again?
Why, what happens?
Osyraa attacks Discovery.
REGULATOR:
I need backup on 13!
[grunting]
[grunting continuing]
Get a better helmet.
You're not Discoverycrew.
What's your name?
Commander... Lock.
I'm on temporary assignment.
Thanks for the save.
-I owe you one.
-Yeah, well,
buy me a drink at Red's.
Vesper martini.
Ice cold.
Only way to drink them.
Stay safe.
Steer clear of the bucketheads,
and don't worry.
We'll get out of this.
So will your face.
All good with Reno?
Fine.
Told her I was a temp.
[sighs]
What happened here?
No idea.
RAYNER:
Looks like no one's
been here in years.
Can't even get a stardate.
Computer's glitching
like it's on its last legs.
["Que Sera, Sera" playing
faintly in distance]
Can you hear that?
♪ Qué será, será♪
♪ Whatever will be♪
♪ Will be♪
♪ The future's not ours to see♪
♪ Qué será, será♪
♪ What will be, will be.♪
-Hello?
-[music stops]
ZORA:
Captain? Is that you?
Or is this another dream?
Hi, Zora.
It's not a dream.
You and the crew
died decades ago.
[chuckles] Is this a dream?
No.
No, it's really me.
What year is this?
3218.
That's almost 30 years
in the future.
What happened here, Zora?
Most of my memory is...
I'm sorry, I...
I can't exactly recall.
But the outcome you feared
came to pass.
The Progenitors' technology
fell into the wrong hands.
What's outside the viewscreen?
You died.
You all died.
Zora, show us what's out there.
Federation headquarters.
RAYNER:
[sighs] What's left of it.
ZORA:
By the time Starfleet
foundDiscovery
and deactivated
the Krenim chronophage,
it was too late.
L'ak and Moll
were too far ahead.
-Is that ship Breen?
-ZORA: Yes.
Somehow, they got
the Progenitors' technology.
They launched a devastating
attack a few weeks after
we were rescued
from the time cycling.
They must have been Moll
and L'ak's highest bidders.
♪
You know, when I first
walked onto this bridge,
it took every ounce
of strength I had
not to turn around
and run back off.
I respected Starfleet too much
to believe I deserved to be
here after what I had done.
You're talking about the mutiny.
But look where you ended up.
You have to be the only person
in Starfleet
to captain a ship that
you first boarded as a prisoner.
So...
how'd you do it?
I never gave up.
Okay.
So, tracking the time cycles
isn't enough.
Sample size is too small
to get a pattern.
Even if we find the bug,
we won't be able
to deactivate it.
Zora, any ideas?
ZORA: Perhaps you need
more data, Captain.
What other variables are there?
ZORA:
Many, Commander.
The ship's location,
distance and speed.
-That's it, the speed.
-Why would that matter?
'Cause we're not just
traveling through time,
we're also traveling
through space.
Sometimes fast, sometimes slow.
-We've been too linear.
-Exactly.
Zora, can you factor in
Discovery'sspeed
into the time cycle lengths
I've already recorded?
ZORA:
Yes. Time cycle lengths may
appear to be random at first,
but when mapped
to a space-time diagram
and expanded
to higher dimensions,
a visual pattern emerges.
BURNHAM:
A conical wave.
It tells us how long
we'll have between time jumps.
And this is us right here.
So we'll know this works
if the cycle
resets in ten seconds.
Here's hoping we land in an era
where Stamets isn't dead.
ZORA:
Good luck, both of you.
You should be leaving
in five, four, three,
-Yes.
-two...
Please.
Set things right again.
I'm waiting, Dr. Truffles.
You mean...
Right, of course.
You need... for the...
The reference calculations
for the injector coil?
-Right.
-And I don't need anything.
You suggested--
quite dramatically,
if I might add--
that I double-check
the reference numbers
of a fix that I've done
a million times.
Yes!
Yes, of course.
For the injector coil
that burned out during
the OBD diagnostic.
Way back ten minutes ago.
Right. Well, uh, yeah,
they're-they're right here.
Hey, so, you know, uh,
sin-since I've got you here
and I'm not sure when
I'll get you again,
uh, I thought I might
get your take on, um,
a theoretical predicament
I've been mulling...
in-in case it ever came up.
Okay.
Say some temporal unpleasantness
were to hit the ship-- um,
to nullify it, I'd just need to
calibrate a chroniton stabilizer
to partition world lines
per Scaravelli's
constant, right?
Theoretically, yes,
so long as you factor
dimensional variations.
Ah.
Are you stuck in a time loop
right now, Stamets?
What?
[chuckling]: No.
Just messing with you.
Don't bury your mind
in the abstract for too long.
You'll turn into
a Rothko painting.
[whispering]: Stamets.
Paul. Psst!
Um, there's been a spore breach!
Evacuate now or-or mushrooms
will grow on your lungs.
-Yes, sir.
-Go, go!
Go!
How are you two even here?
We were beaming
when the cycling started.
And we get sent back to
the ready room after each reset.
I am so happy to see you
I could cry.
I'm so happy to see you, too.
-Have you had any problems?
-No, no, no, no, no.
I've just been, uh,
repeating my past actions,
some of which have been
deeply unpleasant.
But I did get to see
Linus stuck
in the replicator again.
Always a silver lining.
Yeah. Well, listen,
we know what's causing this.
It's some kind of a time bug.
Yeah, aptly named,
and I know where it is.
Yeah, it embedded itself in the
power distribution subsystem.
-Okay, so let's wrench it out...
-STAMETS: Oh, no, no, no.
Easy now, it's not that simple.
If removed improperly,
incalculable timelines
might converge at once,
ripping every molecule around
us into infinite directions,
over and over again,
for eternity.
Sounds bad.
How do we fix it?
Well, uh, we have to
nullify its effects
with near-perfect precision.
And to do that,
I need to be able to
understand the pattern
of the resets.
But I've been so busy trying
not to change the future
that I haven't been able
to record the timings.
That's okay.
Got them right here.
You do?
Takes a village.
STAMETS:
Oh, wow. This is great, yeah.
I can now build
a chroniton stabilizer
and properly calibrate it
to stop this mess.
But I may just need some help
gathering equipment.
But the next cycle
is ending in ten seconds.
Okay, from now on, we meet on
Deck 13 after each reset.
-Got it.
-And Paul, we saw
our possible future.
We can't let it happen.
We cannot fail.
Okay, so, the next reset
is in eight minutes.
So let's be quick.
The good news is that this
timeline has everything I need
to make a chroniton stabilizer.
-Great.
-And the bad news?
The main ingredient
is a field-disrupter fluid
that's in 32nd century
holodecks. And...
At around this time,
the holodeck in my quarters
would have just been installed.
I can go so you don't
risk running into anyone.
The captain's quarters
are biometrically secured.
It has to be me.
Let's do it now.
Don't know when
we'll be able to again.
-In that case, be safe.
-And fast.
Meet you in engineering.
[sighs]
[door whooshes open]
Hey.
I thought you would have
been on the bridge.
I would have grabbed you
a raktajino
on my way back from the gym.
Yeah, I had to pop back.
But I should go.
Um, I've got to be somewhere in
four and a half minutes, so...
Very precise, Michael.
You know me.
Precise.
You okay?
Yeah.
No, oh, yeah.
Yeah, I'm okay.
It's a lot
of new responsibilities,
becoming the captain.
Mm-hmm.
Trust your instinct.
You were made for this.
Change can be hard.
It's also the only way anything
meaningful can happen.
Uh, can we
talk about this later?
Um... Yeah?
Love you.
I love you.
[door whooshes open]
Nice and quiet.
He cleared it
with another spore breach.
STAMETS:
Yeah, I'm a little disturbed
that my crew doesn't know
that isn't a real thing.
Not much time.
Next reset's 45 seconds.
ALL:
Get out!
Okay.
This is ready.
You do the honors.
Just put it right on the bug
and we should be back
in our real time in a flash.
Literally.
Oh!
What the hell is that?
STAMETS:
Well, it's a defense mechanism
of some kind.
A temporal shield, I think.
Let's find out for sure.
Uh, that's bad.
Down to ten seconds.
We got to figure this out.
There's no way out
of this mess, otherwise.
[door whooshes open]
-What have you got?
-Okay,
so, uh, the spanner
disintegrated
because time
within the temporal shield
is moving at an
ultra-accelerated rate.
So anything-- including us--
ages to dust
before it can actually
get to the bug itself.
-Can we turn the shield off?
-No.
But we can mitigate the effects
long enough to get in
and deactivate it.
We just need to allow
relativity to take over.
By taking the ship
to maximum warp and then
breaking the warp bubble.
[short chuckle]
What?
Because that's what protects us
from the effects of relativity.
We'll drop out of warp so fast
that the time inside the shield
won't be able to keep up.
Essentially, whatever went
into the shield in that moment
would still age,
just not instantly.
Well, wouldn't
the whiplash kill us
or break the Discovery
into a million pieces?
Well, the inertial dampeners
should prevent that. Hopefully.
It's a big move.
It'll definitely
change the future.
No, not if we succeed.
Because changes to any time
that we're in
don't become permanent
until after the bug resets.
So, as long as we break
the warp bubble
and turn the bug off
within the same time cycle,
everything will go back
to the way it was before.
So we only have one shot.
It's a risk we have to take.
Let's do it now.
This current time cycle
is the longest that we'll have
in a while-- 14 minutes.
Who's on the bridge?
Okay, so it's, uh,
right now Lorca's ship,
but he's on an away mission
with Saru and Landry.
So the duty roster
has Rhys on call.
And we've got Detmer,
Owosekun, Bryce, Tilly,
Chen, Sanchez...
...and Airiam.
Who's Airiam?
She's an officer that didn't
make it to the future with us.
We can do this.
We just have to do it together.
But you're not their captain
in this time.
You're a mutineer.
They're not gonna listen to you.
I'll have to find a way.
Okay, so, uh, I'll modulate
the inertial dampeners
to keep the vibrations
from destroying the ship
once we've broken
the warp bubble.
Guess I'm the lucky one sticking
his hand in the spider's nest.
Here. My communicator.
Just in case you need it.
I'll grab a spare.
We've got 13 minutes.
Let's make 'em count.
[door whooshes open]
Computer, bridge.
[door whooshes closed]
Mm. Mm.
Uh... Mm.
Let me just say...
Red is definitely your color.
-[chuckles]
-Mm.
Thank you, Linus.
Hm.
-Computer! Security!
-No!
Computer, belay that order.
Computer, Deck 13.
We can talk down there.
Wow. Hi.
-Who the hell are you?
-Okay, okay.
It's complicated.
Oh, I was really hoping
that this wouldn't happen.
But things rarely go as planned
for us, am I right?
Okay. I'm just gonna...
I'm just gonna explain it then.
I am you from the future.
And we are stuck... I-I...
I'm stuck cycling through time
because of a temporal weapon
that is currently
in engineering.
I do have a plan
to deactivate it,
but I have very limited time
to do it,
so please just let me proceed,
and nothing needs to happen.
I don't know if you're
a shapeshifter or what.
But seeing the uniform,
you must think I'm an idiot
if you expect me to believe
that a mutineer
could ever end up
with captain's pips.
No, no, no, no, no. Burnham,
you don't want to do that.
You don't want to do that.
Yeah. I really do.
[grunting]
Oh!
Michael, I don't
want to hurt you.
[panting]
I know...
that it's hard to see a path
to the captain's seat
from where you are.
Even I forgot just how hopeless
this time felt.
It will be a long road.
But just...
...don't give up.
All right, I am very grumpy!
Just absolutely irate.
And I need to be left alone.
FEMALE:
Yes, sir.
That was faster than
your spore breach excuse.
Yeah, I was, uh,
a tad more surly
pre-tardigrade DNA.
[console beeping]
What's wrong?
No, it's just
the, uh, the inertial dampeners.
These 23rd century systems
are muddying up in my head
with the 32nd century systems
-we have now.
-Yeah?
Well, un-muddy them.
We're not exactly made of time.
Okay, I need you to press pause
on the "gruff candor" routine.
You have no idea
how much pressure I'm under.
I thought that was your thing.
Brilliant scientist
that everything's hanging on.
Yeah, well, things change.
And not every problem
is something you can
figure out on your own.
You try being the one
to keep this ship together
so we don't die
and-and erase everything
we've ever done from history.
And even if we make it back,
this Progenitor technology
we're after-- it's...
it's different.
It's...
it's bigger than anything
I have taken on before.
You're not in any of it alone.
What can I do to help,
right now?
Well, I-I do need to finish
calibrating the dampeners,
which is gonna take
a little time, so...
if you could transfer control
of the plasma-coolant systems
-to that console?
-Got it.
Hey. Paul.
Let's show 'em how
a couple of old dogs
still know the best tricks.
[chuckles softly]
Lieutenant Owosekun,
run a multiphasic
-scan of the system's...
-Michael, what are you
doing here?
Specialist Burnham. You're not
authorized to be on the bridge.
And why are you out of uniform?
And what did you do
to your hair?
-Love it.
-BURNHAM: This is gonna be hard
to understand at first,
and hard to accept,
but I am from the future.
-Security.
-No, w-wait, please.
Listen, it's not a...
it's not a trick.
In our future, Discovery
is on a very important mission
to find an immense power,
and we've been stalled
by a temporal weapon.
No need for that, Owo. I took
a right cross from you in the
training room a few months back.
-I don't need that
experience that again.
-AIRIAM: Computer,
scan the ship for
Michael Burnham's life signs.
COMPUTER:
There are two identical sets
of Michael Burnham
life signs aboard.
One is presently unconscious.
It's fine. It's fine.
She's fine.
I nerve pinched her.
I just...
I need you to listen to me.
There's a window on Deck Six
that you sit at
when you're having a bad day.
It's usually quieter
than the observation room.
You joined Starfleet because
you weren't able to
save your friend
when you were 15.
And you love comms because
you used to listen
to old radio emissions
in space with your grandmother.
And you're a cadet
who's frightened
of rooming with a mutineer.
You think I'm gonna
knife you in your sleep
because of your snoring.
I won't, by the way.
Thank you.
You say you're from the future.
-I am.
-And you're a Starfleet captain?
I'm Discovery'scaptain.
[scoffs] Okay.
BURNHAM:
Listen to me. I have seen
the Federation collapse.
We all die because
I don't complete this mission.
And I am running out of time.
And, what, you just expect us
to believe all of this?
No.
But Airiam will believe me.
And I know you all trust her.
Why?
Oh, I'm sorry.
I'm sorry to have to do this.
Speak, Michael.
I've seen how you die.
Oh, no, no, no,
don't do that. No.
If you won't get her
off the bridge, I will.
396 days from now...
Oh, Airiam,
we miss you every day.
-Stop. Michael, st... Don't...
-Listen, I was there.
An AI program
infects your augmentation.
Enough.
You sacrifice everything for us.
That's a lie. Because we
would never let her do that.
There was no other way.
She'd fight it off.
Some fights can't be won.
She would never
give up like that.
I would.
If it came to that, I would.
Phaser down, Bryce.
What do you need from us?
COMPUTER:
Everyone to their stations.
We are going to maximum warp.
She did it.
She damn well did it.
She always does.
All right, um, I'm almost done.
Uh, be ready with
the chroniton stabilizer.
Attach it to the bug on my mark.
Yep, all good.
Yeah, okay, uh,
we have three minutes left.
It'll be close,
but I think we can make it.
PAST BURNHAM:
Step away from the console.
Both of you.
We've reached maximum speed,
Commander.
Ready to break the warp bubble
on your mark.
Thank you, Lieutenant.
Fascinating technology.
I wish I were going to be around
to learn more about it.
-I'm sorry.
-Don't be.
If things go the way you expect,
I won't remember anyway.
-Are they ready to go?
-They should be.
Rayner. Are we all set?
RAYNER:
Actually, we have a problem.
Your past self doesn't
want to screw up again.
PAST BURNHAM:
Lieutenant Stamets,
I don't know what that
shapeshifter and her friend
have said to fool you,
but you are going
to shut down the warp core
and stop the ship. Now.
Um, so,
-like I said, it's because of...
-Uh, I think you need
to come down here and have
a little talk with yourself.
CURRENT BURNHAM:
I would never make it in time.
We have less than three minute.
Rayner, you have to handle this.
What-what I really need
is for you
to let me go back
to the console.
We're about to break
the warp bubble.
Shut it down.
We won't ask again.
Last warning.
RAYNER:
Gen.
We know each other.
Anyone could look up
my first name.
Yeah, that's right.
But I do know you.
Not now. In the future.
Now, you're Lieutenant Rhys.
In my time, you're
Lieutenant Commander Rhys.
You're my tactical officer.
I'm tactical now,
it's not a stretch.
Fair point.
Okay, something personal.
You love ships.
You love the Crossfield.
Who doesn't?
23rd century Constitution class.
That's your favorite.
You told me.
You love the curves.
And, Lieutenant,
I have to agree.
That is one damn fine vessel.
It's true.
You know, even if he is from
the future, it's too dangerous.
Don't make me shoot you,
Lieutenant.
Michael?
-They're working on it.
-STAMETS: We have
-90 seconds left.
-PAST BURNHAM: If I let you
do this, Discovery
would be destroyed.
And if you don't,
the Burn won't end
or maybe the Federation will.
You don't trust us.
I get that.
And from what I know about you,
I wouldn't expect you to.
-You don't know
anything about me.
-I know that the first day
that you stood
on the bridge of this ship,
you wanted to run.
-Not another step.
-'Cause you felt
you didn't deserve to be here.
You told me that.
Future you.
And seeing that
was only a few weeks ago,
I'm guessing you still do.
But let me tell you something.
You do deserve to be here.
Doing a damn good job,
and all this shit
you're going through
is gonna make you into
one hell of a captain.
30 seconds, Rayner.
For what it's worth,
I lost my family young, too.
And when that happens,
there's only
one thing left you can trust.
And that's the voice
in your head.
Yours is gonna take you
to some great places.
Keep trusting it.
Especially now,
'cause I know
what it's telling you.
Crazy as it seems,
do the right thing...
...and stand down.
Let us complete our mission.
Captain, go!
Do it now!
-Lieutenant.
-Aye, Commander.
Initiating break.
Exiting warp bubble
in five, four,
three, two,
one.
AIRIAM:
Status report.
OWOSEKUN:
Inertial dampers
are holding, Commander.
BURNHAM:
Do it now, Rayner!
STAMETS:
Hang in there.
Just a few more seconds.
[groaning]
Ah.
Oh, we are back to the present.
We've only lost six hours.
Felt like six years.
The past hasn't been altered.
Nothing's changed.
We did it.
[exhales]
You okay?
Looks really painful.
I'm good. I'm good.
You should go see Dr. Culber,
he can fix it.
[grunts softly]
It's not lost on me
how you pulled this off.
How we did.
You with the crew, me with Rhys.
And you knowing them...
That's what convinced them.
Familiarity can lead
to complacency as well.
You're right about that.
But we've somehow found
a way to use our connection
to keep us honest,
make us better.
-I should have
explained that to you.
-Eh.
You show me more patience
than I deserve.
Truth be told, I can be...
...stubborn.
Like you used to be.
You know, I still am.
Just in a different way.
Seeing her
was a really good reminder.
You know?
We are always changing.
With everything
that happens to us,
with the choices we make,
what's meaningful to us.
I get that being here
and the way you came here
is a big adjustment.
But I think we made
a pretty good team today.
Yeah.
We got the job done.
Now, how do you want
to go about explaining all this?
I think, with this crew,
they'll get it
as soon as we say "time bug."
[chuckling]
[indistinct conversations]
Would have been more satisfying
if I'd been able to squish you.
What is that thing?
-Long story.
-Uh,
would it have
anything to do with
why I just blinked and six hours
have somehow gone by?
OWOSEKUN:
I'm honestly a little shocked
my past self
believed you, Captain.
DETMER:
Me too.
I can't believe
I'd ever consider
breaking the warp bubble.
I'm just glad
we didn't shoot you.
[laughs]
There was a time I would have
thought I deserved it.
Really glad
we all came together.
Now, let's figure out what's
changed in the last six hours.
Can the DOTs tell us anything?
They did find something,
Captain:
a warp signature.
It matches with
L'ak and Moll's ship.
Seems like your theory
was a good one, Commander Rhys.
Good work.
Where are Moll and L'ak now?
That's the strange thing--
their trail disappears.
Like they came here
and now they're just gone.
Wherever they are,
that's where the next clue is.
And these are the right
coordinates,
so it's a mystery indeed.
Are we ready?
CREW:
Aye, Captain.
Then let's get to solving it.
♪
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org